Petroleum Engineering Building, and I won't jump ahead to our senior year.
But y'all drilled on?
We drilled on the Harrington Field, I guess it is now, and we'd have final reviews, and we'd have Mother's Day programs, and we'd have Parents' Days, you know.
During the class day, if you and a buddy had any spare time, unscheduled time, where did you go?
What did you do?
I don't remember having a lot of unscheduled time.
It seemed to me like you had enough homework to keep you busy.
And as a freshman, the upperclassmen were going to keep you quite busy also.
Where could you go hide out and do your homework?
At the library.
And most of the guys were pretty reasonable and recognized that you did have to do your homework.
I don't think there were many times that I
I would have to ask to be excused from any task so that I could get my homework done.
I don't think the homework was too much.
I don't think it was overcrowding us on our time.
We were not allowed automobiles and that sort of thing.
So in the freshman year, you did some hitchhiking, but not a whole lot.
Now, on a Saturday night, if you and your buddies didn't have anything scheduled, where did you go for fun?
Well, we might play poker.
In the room?
In the room.
Would money ever be involved?
Money would be involved.
Well, that was not approved, was it?
It was not approved, and boards were not approved, and you weren't supposed to get caught.
And so I guess we took an attitude that if you don't get caught, whatever you do is okay.
That's not a healthy way to look at life, but anyway, maybe it is, I don't know.
That first fall, do you remember a court trip?
Yeah.
Where?
First fall we went to Fort Worth and marched it down.
parade before the TCU game.
How'd you get up there?
Or do you remember?
I don't recall.
Might have had a ride from a buddy.
I remember Austin Dance had a motorcycle, and we'd go motorcycling with him.
But we mostly hitchhiked wherever we were going.
But on a court trip, I believe we
had to be organized to where we would be sure of getting there.
Now, that first semester, did you attempt to go home at all during that fall?
Yes.
No, I did not.
And how did you and your family communicate?
By mail.
And Mom was always sending cookies or something like that, too.
Where could a fish hide the cookies to keep others from eating them up?
Well, I guess you'd hire them in your shoes, I mean hide them in your shoes.
Later on we would hide our boards in the walls.
You'd take the medicine cabinets out of the wall and put the boards inside the wall, put the medicine cabinets back.
Of course the bulls, the inspectors would always find us from time to time.
Now let's see, that fall A&M had a good football team.
Oh my word, yeah, unbeaten.
I think we were unbeaten for 18 straight games into our freshman sophomore game, too.
As far as you know, did those football players go to class and take real courses?
Yes.
As far as I know, they had to do well academically.
Where did they live?
All over.
All right.
They were scattered out?
They were scattered out.
They didn't have a later athletic dorms.
They didn't have that.
Did they have a training table or did they eat with their outfits?
I don't recall.
I think they ate with their outfit.
Do you remember going to your first football game or so?
Oh, yeah.
What was it like?
Describe the football Saturday.
Oh, it was great.
You marched in, as they still do.
We'd have a date and maybe we'd meet at the old Aggieland Inn.
And maybe Mom would approve of us or not approve of us, and then we'd take our date to the football game.
Did your family come up here during that first fall?
Did they drive?
I believe they came once.
Did you have a date from home at that time?
No.
All right.
Well I went home the first time from being in A&M to meet my girlfriend there.
I think I was already a sophomore.
And I met my date.
I didn't meet my date.
I saw her at the Fort Sam Houston Officer's Club jitterbugging with another guy, and I didn't know how to jitterbug.
Emily Beth was a great gal, but she sure could dance around me like I didn't know what I was doing.
All right, your first semester you did okay in your academics.
Except for that.
Except for the English.
English.
And spring semester, you never thought about changing your major.
Never did.
And as the war gets more and more serious, what did you do after that freshman summer?
Did you go home?
Oh, that freshman summer.
Gosh, I don't remember my freshman summer.
You didn't go to summer camp, I don't think, did you?
No, we did not go to summer camp.
So I guess...
I guess I must have gone home, but I won't recall.
You don't remember what your job was?
I don't remember what my job was.
Do you have any idea what it cost to go to A&M in that time?
Well, I always recall everybody saying the tuition was 50 bucks and that was it.
I also took in cleaning and pressing.
I'd get a nickel for a pair of trousers and a nickel for
a shirt that I would carry down to the cleaners that was above the old bookstore.
You got a nickel for carrying them?
I got a nickel for each item that I took to the cleaners and brought back and gave back to the upperclassmen.
Did you bring with you some spending money or did your parents give you?
My dad sent me some money from time to time and I knew he had a hard time giving it to me.
So I saved my money pretty much from the cleaning and pressing.
And what kind of enjoyable things did you spend that money on?
Hitchhiking.
We'd hitchhike to Houston and we'd hitchhike to Waco and we'd hitchhike to San Antonio and we did very well in hitchhiking.
Share some hitchhiking stories that you remember.
Well, the horror stories are when you got picked up by a guy who had been drinking and he put his hat over the speedometer and put his foot all the way to the floor
And this guy passed on the left on a car that was already passing, or he'd pass on the right.
And I don't know how I survived that particular ride.
But the guy took me to my home, let me out in my driveway, and I was very thankful to be alive.
But that was, that was one time it was really... Now, to go from here to San Antonio, what was the route you usually followed?
To Hearn, through Taylor, Rockdale, to Round Rock, to Austin.
San Antonio.
Okay.
Did you ever get left somewhere for two or three hours?
Did you ever get stuck badly?
Oh, we got stuck from the rain from time to time, you know, that sort of thing.
I never will forget that my sophomore year, we bought a car.
Scott Kramer and I bought a car.
He was in B Battery.
But we bought this Model A Ford, and going down to Houston, the ignition caught on fire.
And we ripped the darn wires out of there to put the fire out, and we did get it out.
We went on and had a weekend with a couple of gals down there.
And then coming back, we got picked up by a Prairie View A&M young man.
It took us all the way to the East Gate and dropped us off and turned around and went back to Prairie View.
My, my.
Us Aggies have got to stick together.
That's what he said.
And that's a true story.
How good.
That was really good.
And that was a very rainy weekend.
A very rainy weekend.
What did that Model A cost?
Do you remember?
Oh, I think that Model A must have cost us about $50, something like that.
Compare being a sophomore to what it was like to be a freshman.
Well, it was all the difference in the world.
I mean, a sophomore had many privileges like all the upperclassmen.
I mean, we were supposed to get our room
clean and have breakfast delivered if we wanted that and get them to write a letter to our girlfriends and that sort of thing if we needed it.
But a sophomore was a pretty well thought of guy.
And I never will forget the stripes.
When you became a sophomore, you became a corporal automatically.
And you might get to be
A sergeant?
No.
A sergeant was part of being a junior.
You might be a PFC or a corporal.
And depending upon how many stripes you got, the upperclassmen would give you that number of licks.
So if you were a corporal, you got two licks from each of your upperclassmen.
And I never will forget this one upperclassman that had a class and he didn't get there during the time that we were supposed to get our stripes.
We'd just call those lick stripes.
And oh, I don't know whether I ought to say the names or not, but at any rate.
He came in two hours later, and we were pretty cold.
And that is painful.
Let me tell you, that is painful.
And then my mother saw my rear end.
And the San Antonio A&M Mothers Club went up in smoke.
Uh-oh, uh-oh.
Caused lots of trouble.
Now, the A&M Mothers Club was already strong.
In San Antonio, particularly, that I knew of.
But they didn't like the fact that my rear end was pretty well red and maybe a little blood streaming here and there.
And you all had a San Antonio club here on campus.
I don't recall ever.
Oh, really?
I was assuming that you all had one where you'd get together and share rides and that sort of thing.
Not really.
OK. Not really.
Describe the A&M student body of that era in general.
What were their attitudes, their values?
What kind of families did they come from?
Well, all of them, in my view, were very serious minded.
And they all wanted to get an education.
And they all wanted to get a job.
And they all wanted to get married.
They all wanted to have kids.
And they wanted the war to be over.
And so they were very conscientious and serious in their studies.
And their values, were they liberals or conservatives?
I believe they were more conservative than liberals.
And they had come from rich families?
Not rich families.
There's no such thing as a common man.
But most of our classmates were products of architects or
And was there a mix of country and urban?
Yes.
Of course, in the Coastal Artillery, we were more engineering-oriented than agricultural-oriented.
So we had more of the mechanicals and electricals and petroleum and that sort of thing.
Now, did you engineers think that y'all were the smarter students?
Sure.
My dad told me that if I would not take flying,
then he would allow me to go to school an extra year and get two degrees instead of one.
So I switched from mechanical engineering to mechanical and petroleum engineering.
Because I would get another year of college, and I wouldn't take flying, and I'd get two degrees instead of one.
Of course, because of the war, we didn't get to take that extra year.
And that's why my diploma does not say mechanical engineering.
My degree was in engineering.
And so there we were.
We didn't have a commission.
We had to go to OCS.
Because of the fact that we didn't get to go to summer camp for two weeks, we went to OCS for three months.
And it was like freshman year all over again.
And so it was fairly easy to take because the Aggies had been schooled in freshman year.
Back to the student body.
Was there a pretty good mix of students in terms of their ancestry and their backgrounds?
I think there was a good mix, yeah.
And did you have a nickname?
Zorro.
How did you get that?
Well I guess.
I remember the movie Zorro.
Yeah.
Well we also had a black hand.
group in our battery that would make sure you had to get your head shaved at least once a week or something like that.
A black hand?
A black hand.
If you didn't get your hair cut properly, the Black Hand Society would come cut it for you.
But it was quite a cross country.
Mix of disciplines and families.
Were there Hispanic boys?
Yes, we had Hispanic boys.
And Catholics and Protestants and Jews?
Catholics and Protestants and Jews and the whole bunch, and we all got along fine.
What was the secret of everybody getting along?
Being all part of a group.
We were Aggies.
And we, in our freshman year, we worked one year for three.
So we would get the upperclassmen privileges of having our rooms cleaned and being able to eat breakfast in our rooms before going to class instead of going
And those student nicknames were not a put-down, they were an identifier.
That's right.
And some of them lasted forever, didn't they?
They did.
Let's see, YMCA, what role did it play then?
Well, that's where we had our Yale practice, of course, on the steps of the YMCA, and we had bowling alleys underneath.
And when the parents would come, well, we'd bowl with the parents.
And I never will forget one time I bowled better than Mr. Wilton G. Meyer, my roommate's father.
And it just about killed him that I bowled better than he did.
But at any rate, that was the YMCA, was bowling and yell practice.
And is that where you got a Coke, a soft drink?
I guess you could get a soft drink there.
But you didn't have much money to spend on that.
We didn't have much money for that.
Where did you go to the movie?
We went to the movie at the, there was a movie house.
At the Campus Theater?
Or at Guyon?
Which did you?
It was, I think it was right next to the Aggieland Inn.
Right about where the memorial, I mean the chapel is now.
Chapel is now, yeah.
Did you guys ever cut up anything during the movie?
Make any noise?
Oh, I imagine so every now and then.
Raise a little hill.
Religious activities.
Do you remember any chapel, Northgate?
Well I don't think we were, I don't recall really going to Sunday school.
What did you do on Sunday?
Well if I wasn't in Waco or Houston or San Antonio, probably sleep in and maybe go to a movie.
Let's describe a football, once you're a sophomore or higher, describe a home football Saturday.
Usually at eight.
I'd either come in by a motor car or sometimes come in by the train.
And lunch in Sabeasa.
And there the underclassmen, like freshmen,
They learned I could sing, I guess, and I had to sing Wee Bonnie Baker.
And I would sing for some of the dates of our upperclassmen from time to time.
Like, oh Johnny, oh how you could love.
At any rate, then you'd go to the game and then you'd come back and have a dinner.
Or the date would take off with their parents and go home.
Now, did the Aggie buy the date's football ticket?
We must have.
He didn't pay for her train ticket, did he?
No.
They would come down on their own.
And most of their expenses were paid by themselves.
Now when they came to a dance, well, or to a football game, how were the dates treated by the Aggies?
Oh, with great respect.
But the Aggie tradition of a kiss after each conversion or touchdown or extra point, that was a very favorite tradition.
That was continued?
That was continued.
Do you remember ever any young lady that didn't know about that tradition in advance?
I wondered if there was ever a time when the girl didn't know she was going to get kissed.
I don't think so.
As a matter of fact, even with Pat and me, and this is our second marriage, I made sure she was well trained and well educated as to what to expect in a football game.
There was a young couple in front of us that was named Bradley, and he's a dentist here now.
He said that they had such a dry spell
during most of their football time, that they would kiss on first downs.
See, I went into the service, and I missed out on a lot of football games between graduation and then.
Let's see.
In your days, were the Yale leaders important people?
Were they?
Very much so.
They were Yale leaders.
They weren't cheerleaders.
And they got out in front of the group, and they
They made sure everybody understood what the hand signals were and we learned how to yell and we learned how to hump it and we learned how to grab a pooch.
and all those other good Aggie traditions.
Now, other than the Longhorns, in your day, who was the opponent that A&M most wanted to beat?
Other than the Longhorns?
Other than the Longhorns.
The Longhorns were the main ones, of course.
That's where I saw my first defeat was by the Longhorns.
We had 18 straight games winning.
And we were headed for the Rose Bowl until they threw a long 57-yard pass.
in the first 57 seconds of the game, and the Aggies failed to score after that.
What did you all think?
It was the first time we stayed in the stands and cried, which I thought was terrible, but everybody did it.
Yeah, Lordy.
That was a very sad time when we lost those turns.
To answer your question, I guess the second most
not admired team were the Owls.
The Rice Owls?
Rice Owls.
Any reason for that that you can think of?
Well, because of that mob marching up Owl Band.
They weren't very respectful to us, and so we weren't very respectful to them.
And I recall a mump epidemic.
I think we were sophomores.
And a bunch of the guys broke out of the hospital and went down and stole the rice owl and then came back and got back in the hospital and then they were sick from not knowing what they were supposed to do.
What they were supposed to not do, they did.
Too much exercise and the mumps went down and some of them had to be operated on.
to relieve that problem.
Were you ever part of any of those mascot thefts?
Never.
I was not.
Let's see.
Were the scene cadets around in that era?
I was a member of Ross Volunteers.
Hold on, let me write that down.
We'll want to get that in a second.
What about the Aggieland Orchestra?
Oh yeah, Russ Hillier.
Was that big time?
You bet it was big time.
Russ Hillier was great.
He played the right kind of music, sure enough.
And we had other big bands.
Such as?
Who were they?
Was Tommy here?
Tommy Dorsey?
I don't recall Tommy Dorsey, but I know Glenn Miller.
Glenn Miller, okay.
I don't recall the others.
And there was never any kind of problem at an Aggie dance, was there?
Not that I recall.
I've never heard of any.
And the young ladies dressed like queens and were treated like queens.
That's right.
I do recall one time at a dance off the campus on the other side of the Brazos River where a freshman or a sophomore took notice of the fact that the senior had taken off his boots and was dancing on the dance floor without his senior boots on.
And the freshman or the sophomore did not like that.
They thought the man should stay in uniform.
and they had a little altercation there for a while.
But that was, that dance hall was just across the Brazos River, and I guess there was too much drinking going on.
Was it near where the Whiskey Bridge place would later be?
No, this was on – Oh, on West Highway 30.
That was where Whiskey Bridge – I mean 21.
It was on 21, yeah.
Just alongside the railroad tracks, just on the other side of the bridge.
But that was not Whiskey Bridge.
Was alcohol available at that dance hall?
Beer.
I don't recall that hard liquor was there.
What was the favorite indulgence of Aggies in your day?
Beer?
I guess so.
What were the popular brands?
Lone Star.
Lone Star and?
Grand Prize and Southern Select.
No.
Falstaff.
Falstaff and Lone Star I think were the two big ones.
The Kahler Pearl.
Pearl!
Oh, yeah, sure.
Pearl Beer and Long Star and Falstaff were the three big ones, I think.
Now, did Aggies drink much hard liquor?
Not a whole lot.
Did they smoke?
If they did smoke, what were they smoking?
Camels.
I think that was it.
Did anybody smoke pipes?
I don't recall anybody that was smoking pipe.
Now, was it acceptable to smoke in the dormitory?
Could you smoke in your own room?
I don't recall.
I didn't smoke, so I just don't recall.
Was Ed Hardlicker's place yet?
Oh, absolutely.
Describe what you remember of Mr. Hardlicker's place.
Well, it was a place down on Welbon Road on the left-hand side, and you could get a beer down there.
And it's not there any longer.
It was burned down, I guess.
But Ed Hardlecker, I remember young Ed Hardlecker, too.
I was in the service with him.
And he was a fine guy.
And Hardlecker's was a great place for Aggies to go.
Did y'all know?
Franklin's was another good place to go to.
Yeah, where was Franklin's?
It was out on 30.
On 30, yeah, out toward the river.
Did you and your buddies know that drugs existed?
Did you even know the word marijuana?
I never.
I didn't know it.
I would have been surprised if you had said you did.
Never did.
All right, then you come back in the fall of 1941 as a junior, and do you remember where you were on December 7 when you heard the news?
Yes, I do.
Describe that, please.
We were in Hart Hall and Ensign Gay came and talked to us about his torpedo bombing in the
in the uh straits of the midway oh no wait that's later that's later yeah because see the war hadn't started in december 7 december 41. okay that's right that's right this is sunday pearl harbor sunday
Well, we all heard the famous Live in Infamy.